If a military plane loaded with a biological
weapon crashed into your town's water supply,
what would you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
the town Sheriff, see if we can make better
decisions, and ultimately attempt to beat
the Trixie Virus in, The Crazies. If you think
you have a better way, let me know in the
comments! If you like these how to beat videos,
consider liking and subscribing.
Before we start I gotta let y’all know about
some new stuff. I just set up my merch store
with Nerd Explains logo tees and mugs, so
everyone else can identify who to team up
with if shit goes down. Us Nerd’s gotta
stick together, and before you say it, the
shirts also come with a guarantee that I won’t
cannibalize you if the food runs out. That’s
what you call, an exclusive perk.
Besides the official logo merch, I made something
custom. The Bloody Banana Split. If you don’t
get it, you haven’t watched enough of my
videos. I’m going to be making more custom
designs commemorating special Nerd Explains
videos and jokes.
Also, you can now flex on everyone else by
becoming a channel member and getting custom
evolving zombie badges next to your name in
the comments.
Thanks again for the support guys and the
handful of gals out there as well.
We start out following Sheriff David.
The crowd’s having a good time at the ball
game until a deranged man stumbles onto the
field with a Rossi Overland double barrel
shotgun.
David tries to de-escalate the situation,
but the man doesn’t appear to be right in
the head.
That was a quick ass draw, but let’s break
down that situation.
I’m not sure what the actual protocol is
for police in this situation, but I’d imagine
you’d already have your gun unholstered
and or pre-aimed, or at the very least the
holster button pre-popped for a quicker draw.
My thinking is that you’d want to go wide
when walking up to him, so you ended up on
his side with no innocents behind you. Walking
up to Rory like David did potentially put
the entire crowd in the line of fire.
I’d have the deputy get everyone out of
there, like actually have everyone leave the
area.. then come up on Rory’s other flank,
so they both have clear lines of fire with
no nearby bystanders.
It’s a small town, so David know’s Rory.
He knows he’s a drunk, but also a decent
person so he gives him the benefit of the
doubt and closes the distance to try to have
a heart to heart. This is a risky play, because
closing the distance can help you de-escalate
the situation and give you an opportunity
to grab Rory’s gun away from him, but it
also means he can shoot you more easily.
In the movie David walks straight up to Rory,
and still has a crowd of innocents behind
him. Closing the distance in this case means
that if Rory started squeezing the triggers,
he’d take the entire load of buckshot and
his partner could kill Rory, but everyone
behind him would be safe.
Another tactical error. If you close the distance,
you’d want to have your deputy on your flank
also close the distance. You don’t want
to be close and him far, because then he’s
more likely to accidentally shoot you.
Realistically, at that distance Rory wouldn’t
need to shoulder the gun or aim it. He already
had it pointed at David’s chest and could
just pull the trigger.
It’s a tough situation when someone already
has a gun drawn on you.
You either have to distract them or divert
their weapon away from you before you go to
draw your weapon, because they could easily
kill before you got the gun out of your holster.
David was too far away to physically divert
Rory’s gun, so drawing on Rory was exceptionally
dangerous, though he didn’t have a choice.
This is why you’d want to already have your
gun up before engaging.
David did have some key advantages. He perceived
that Rory was drunk or under the influence,
which would slow his reaction times. He also
would have noticed that Rory’s Rossi Overland
shotgun has hammers on both tubes that need
to be cocked back before firing. These weren’t
cocked as far as I can tell. David’s using
a standard issue Glock, which doesn’t have
a safety that needs to be flipped off, decreasing
the time to fire. All this combined with being
the first to initiate the draw means that
Rory is unlikely to be able to get the shot
off before David. For a small town Sheriff,
this still takes a lot of skill to pull off
under stress, especially when you knew Rory
was a decent guy.
They take Rory’s body back to the medical
examiner who says that the toxicology report
from his autopsy is going to take a week or
so to be completed, which like every other
movie, is long enough that whatever was causing
the problem will kill everyone before they
figure it out. We really need to improve these
toxicology report times, we never figure out
what’s going on until it’s too late.
Afterwards, the sheriff goes to console the
grieving family, and it goes about how you’d
expect.
He had a shotgun pointed at my head, but I
guess you can’t really expect a grieving
wife whose husband you blew away to think
rationally.
Everyone seems to think it was just Rory being
drunk like usual, which is the most reasonable
assumption based on what they know.
The next morning David shows up to the sheriff’s
office and the phones are blowing up, which
is odd for such a small town of 1260 people.
He gets a call from the medical examiner who
says that Rory was actually not drunk, in
fact he had a blood alcohol level of 0.0.
If he wasn’t wasted, what the hell was wrong
with him.
David returns to the baseball field to try
to make sense of it all. Ben, who was at the
shooting, is doing the same, so David tries
to talk to him.
Sure this is weird, but it’s still reasonable
and passable behavior for someone who also
witnessed the shooting and probably has some
PTSD.
Meanwhile, David’s wife, who is the town
doctor, is examining another man who has some
sort of sudden onset mental illness or brain
impairment.
What’s worrying is that the cases of mental
illness are sudden onset and occurring in
multiple people who were otherwise normal
not days ago. Again, this is a town of like
1200 people. It’s not like she’s a doctor
in a big city with tons of random people coming
in.
The problem is that until this information
is gossiped around enough, everyone has a
fractured view and no consensus can be made
on the state of the situation. Nobody by themselves
has enough information to act, but from a
God’s eye view things are going south fast.
Interestingly, whatever is happening is initially
only happening to the men. Their wives and
kids aren’t affected, and it doesn’t seem
to have spread to them.
Deardra takes her husband back home from the
doctor, and later that night she notices that
the combine in their shed is turned on. Maybe
he’s just going to a little late night farming..
Yah no you’re fucked.
I hope I'm not the only one who was internally
screaming at this lady to not stand in front
of the active combine with her deranged husband
on the loose.
You’re just asking for this to happen.
Combines can go about 5mph, which is like
jog speed. I’m sure she can get out of the
way if it comes at her, but what if she trips.
Why risk it.
And she walks up closer to it. Lady, please.
Keep your hands and feet away from the spinning
blades. If you would kindly walk along the
perimeter of the shed to the side of the combine,
you will have access to the cabin where you
can discuss your issues with the operator.
You just got played by your psycho husband
whose now attempting to murder your child.
Nice. Honestly, you’re lucky he wasn’t
in the combine, or what’s left of your corpse
would be sitting in the grain tank right now.
Personally, I think she should have brought
her son with her to the shed. Hear me out
because I know it seems counterintuitive.
Your significant other is exhibiting severe
mental derangement all of the sudden, you
take them to the doctor, then that night you
hear the combine spinning up in the shed.
You’re obviously scared enough to not want
to bring your kid into a potentially dangerous
situation. Which is why you should.
If you go to the shed by yourself and something
happens to you, your kid won’t know what
happened and he might come to the shed to
find out and get killed, or get killed by
the husband later on. If you bring him, but
keep him back a bit, he will be able to see
what’s going on, and you can keep an eye
on him, but he won’t be in danger as long
as you don’t hold his hand while you flail
in front of the active combine blades like
an idiot.
Leaving the kid back at the house by himself
when you can’t 100% know where your deranged
husband is, is a bad play.
Not to mention how nuts it is to have been
planning on going to sleep in the same bed
and house as him, when you are clearly this
afraid and nervous about his mental state
and your safety.
If my girlfriend suddenly started staring
at the wall all day, unaware of anything going
on around her, and repeated the same phrases
over and over again, I definitely will not
be going to sleep in the same bed or house
as her, and my dog will be staying with me
elsewhere.
By now you’ve no doubt heard of the shooting
of Rory, a man who suddenly went full psycho.
That shit’s going to be in the back of your
head, you’re going to be thinking that maybe
the same thing is happening to your husband.
She gets back to the house and finds her son,
and he takes her into a closet where he tells
her that the dad is coming after him with
a knife.
I also want to point out that hiding in a
closet isn’t really the best spot. You have
nowhere to run, and it’s such an obvious
hiding spot. I remember playing hide and go
seek, and literally the first place you check
is the closets. You gotta get creative. I
heard about an incident where law enforcement
raided a guy's house, and they ended up finding
him inside of a bed mattress. Yah they found
him, but they were U.S. Marshals, not some
psycho. I don’t think hiding inside a mattress
is a feasible or good decision either though.
Like the closet, you have no escape and if
Bill decides to sleep on that bed, good luck
holding your breath all night.
She could try to ambush him and whack him
upside the head with a flower vase, but the
dude’s got a knife and if you don’t knock
him out in one hit, you’re probably dead.
Personally, I’d have grabbed a lamp pole,
smashed out the hallway window behind them,
aimed for the bushes, then just ran for it.
I’ve seen some parkour videos, you just
gotta roll when you hit the ground. Easy stuff.
Bill comes up the stairs and surprise surprise,
he found them in their super secret hiding
spot.
Damn that got me. Wait, what’s that smell..
Yah, I have some problems with this too.
Closet doors shouldn’t be that hard to kick
open because interior house doors are usually
hollow and weak, and in their case the door
opens away from them. You could argue that
they were trying to keep a barrier between
them and him, but I’d think the strong smell
of gas would light a fire under your ass to
leave the closet.
Unfortunately Deardra doesn’t seem to understand
the concept of kicking the door down and instead,
jiggles the door knob like it’s just going
to magically open. I can’t stand when people
do that. Just jiggling the doorknob when it’s
locked, like come one, start ferociously kicking
the door down. It’s your only chance. For
those curious, you kick the spot just next
to the doorknob.
Sheriff David shows up to the crime scene
with this wife.. Does he normally bring her
on calls, because that seems super dangerous
and unprofessional. The last thing you need
is highly emotional people coming into the
crime scene and freaking out.
Okay, by now David has to know something is
up. That’s three encounters with deranged
people who were all normal not days ago. All
now exhibiting murderous tendencies. It’s
like The Happening except everyone wants to
kill each other instead of themselves.
Unfortunately that toxicology report is still
4-5 days away, and good luck with getting
Bill to do a CT scan or getting any information
out of him.
Meanwhile some hunters down in the marsh find
a parachute stuck in the trees. Maybe there’s
a supply crate with something cool in it.
Nope!
Seems like it’d be hard to get any work
done with a guy who just murdered his wife
and child staring you down like that for every
second of the day, unmoving for hours. Shit,
I have trouble concentrating when my dog is
looking at me for pets.
From what we can tell, it’s not transmitting
via bite, it doesn’t seem to be airborne
or contact based or the families would have
gotten it too. But there’s not enough info
to really understand what’s going on.
They get a call from the hunters about the
downed pilot and go investigate it. The corpse
is unrecognizable, but the uniform and insignia
is military. The medical examiner thinks this
bro’s been chilling in the marsh for a week
or so.
There were reports of something crashing into
the marsh about a week ago too, so there may
be a downed plane somewhere nearby.
The chances of them finding that plane within
the same day is unlikely, but as you’ll
see later, David’s one lucky man.
It looks like a C130 military cargo plane
or something similar. Definitely military.
Initially you’d want to send some divers
in to see what’s what. But because there
is a high likelihood that this is connected
with the town's events, there may be something
toxic in the water. The only safe way to investigate
the wreckage is with a HAZMAT dive team, which
Ogden Marsh definitely doesn’t have on staff.
A cheap alternative would be to take water
samples and pictures of the dead pilot, his
credentials, as well as the plane.
They go to the town water person, and he confirms
their suspicions. The same water that the
plane is residing in, flows into their town’s
drinking water supply. Not only that, but
the water reaches Rory’s house first. Rory
wasn’t drunk on booze, he was drunk on a
top-secret biological weapon.
Apparently whatever was in that plane survived
the entire water treatment process and made
it into people’s home’s where it infected
them. Our water treatment processes have high
standards for inactivating known pathogens,
but this was a small town and the military
engineered this virus to withstand water treatment,
so it’s plausible it made it through.
This revelation carries two massive problems.
The first problem is that this was caused
by the military and government, and this plane
crashed a week ago but there are no soldiers
or men in black to be seen. You’d think
they’d be out here within a day of the initial
crash to recover their plane that was carrying
god knows what.
The fact that they aren’t suggests that
they are either grossly incompetent, or more
likely, they know that something really bad
was set loose and recovering the plane is
the last of their worries. Right now they
are probably setting up a wide quarantine
zone around the entire town.
If this situation is as severe as these raging
clues would suggest, anyone that drank the
water in the past week is already infected
unless they are somehow immune.
Being a small town that’s forgettable, the
military and government can still retain plausible
deniability to cover up the incident, saying
that a chemical plant exploded or something.
Expect roads to be blocked and the internet
and cell service to be blacked out. It might
seem hasty and rash, but fleeing is the only
option you have at this point.
Being a government blackout, they have records
of everyone in the town and may make you disappear
if you try to escape and talk. Hopefully David
had the brains to take pictures and samples
which he could use as leverage or a dead man’s
switch to preserve his safety.
The second massive problem is that this plane
was downed for a week, and has been flowing
something toxic into the town this whole time.
Water in the distribution network might have
hit rory first, but it’s been a full day
since that incident and a week since the plane
crashed, literally everyone in the town would
have been drinking that water by now and is
infected if they can be infected. Even David
and his deputy who was sipping fresh weaponized
pathogens every morning are on borrowed time
unless they’re immune somehow.
Doesn’t hurt to break out the bottled water
instead though.
David heads out to the classic overindulged
mayor to convince him to turn off the water
supply. I think it’s pointless by now, but
it wouldn’t hurt. He gets pushback because
the lack of water would kill the crops and
the entire farm town would go bankrupt. There’s
no use arguing with a guy that won’t put
some clothes on to discuss something important
like this.
I was just going to say that they should break
in and shut it off anyways. Any toxicology
report or hard evidence would take too much
valuable time to put together and present,
and the stubborn mayor would shut it down
anyways.
Deputy Russell locks up the lever, and notices
that Bill’s not standing anymore. I mean,
no shit, who's just going to stand the whole
time. Even infected psycho’s gotta lay down
once in a while.
Thankfully David stopped him from going in,
but couldn’t he have just told him to wait
up. There was no need to jumpscare the poor
guy.
I don’t know what Russ was thinking. Who
would be idiotic enough to go into a cell
by themselves to check out a guy who’s infected
with the same kind of military pathogen which
potentially has led to Rory trying to murder
David, as well as Bill murdering his wife
and kid. Besides the fact that Bill might
try to murder you, your lack of PPE might
expose you to the pathogen, if you aren’t
already.
They correctly assess that they aren’t equipped
to deal with this man, and check his transfer
status. Low and behold, the internet and cell
service are out. Wonder who could that be?
It’s quiet down at Ogden marsh’s main
street, too quiet.
What do you do now? Well, I think
the science is clear. A
military plane carrying a deadly pathogen
crashed into the drinking water that everyone’s
been gulping down for a week, there’s no
cell reception indicating the quarantine and
suppression of everyone in the town, and now
the entire town is dead ass silent.
You’re now on a tight timeline. The infection
is clearly past the incubation period, and
everyone should be considered potentially
hostile. With the possibility of the government
silencing and denying this catastrophe, the
military can’t be trusted. The cell reception
is down, so there’s no good way to create
a dead man’s switch with your evidence.
Your best bet is to get the water samples,
pictures, and credentials from the downed
pilot. Then go home, grab your wife, and start
walking to the nearest city, which should
only be a few hours away. I say walking, because
every road will be blocked by the military.
You’re gonna have to avoid these unmarked
vans too.
I know you’re a cop, and you want to start
saving everyone, but it’s too late. Sure,
there could be survivors that are immune,
but it’s highly unlikely. There is a much
higher chance that you will get murdered by
a psycho.
I was just going to say, get that gun un-holstered
brah, and maybe stop by the armory, load up
and get some backup.
Or not. Again, investigating every sound and
abnormality is unwise. Your focus should be
solely on escaping with your wife and your
life. If someone is clearly in need of help
then go help, but wandering stores chasing
weird noises is a surefire way to get dead.
This place is a hell hole waiting to erupt.
David heads into the funeral home, and quickly
discovers this.
It’s almost as if everyone drank the water,
is infected, and has turned into a psycho
like you hypothesized. Dude get up or roll
over sideways god damn. You would have had
serious, serious problems if Russ didn’t
show up at that exact second, which realistically
he wouldn’t have. And on that note, why
were you out there by yourself with no backup
with everyone turning into a version of Bill
and Rory.
David finally realizes that this place can’t
be saved and it’s gonna degenerate hard
and fast, and goes home to warn his wife.
But she stubbornly refuses to just leave because,
and I quote, she’s their doctor. What part
of everyone’s an infected murdering psycho
now, you didn't get. You have no idea what
the issue is, how it’s affecting them, and
these people aren’t treatable as evidenced
by me almost being neutered by a bone saw.
You, can’t, do, shit. This problem is way
worse than a small town doctor can handle.
I swear, some of these people are so stubborn
that you could tell them you found a nuclear
device with a 30 minute countdown and they’d
tell you they need to stay to treat the wounded.
David apparently learned nothing from his
funeral home encounter, and heads out by himself
to their shed to check it out because his
wife saw someone. Yah, it’s probably a murderous
psycho, like I was just telling you about.
Do you want to go give them a health exam
now sweetheart? No? Then let's get in the
car and go.
David goes to check it out by himself, also
leaving his wife in the home by herself. Where
the fuck is Russ anyways, you’d think sticking
together and getting some firepower would
be smart.
Honestly that was probably the best outcome.
They get taken to the FEMA quarantine camps
and separated into infected vs uninfected
based on elevated temperatures. His wife seems
to think it’s cerebral hemorrhaging from
a virus. But only transferred through bodily
fluids.
Looks like Judy drank too much of the water.
I don’t know why she’s screaming no, no,
no, they are literally trying to help you.
They could have just thrown you in the fenced
cage outside with everyone else.
David gets let out of the quarantine with
tons of others because he passed a quick temperature
check.
Why is it that movies think a handheld temperature
screen is conclusive enough to let people
out of a quarantine zone. You’re dealing
with a town of 1200 people, it shouldn’t
be that hard to put them in a second stage
where they are more fully tested for the virus.
They must know that there is an incubation
period from when the plane crashed to when
people suddenly started losing their minds
and cerebral hemorrhaging. Anyone who traveled
in from out of town or didn’t drink much
of the water may still be in the incubation
period. Letting people leave is idiotic.
Not too mention, you’d probably want to
see if any of the uninfected had generated
antibodies to the virus.
Meanwhile his wife is in the hospital with
a front row seat to the unfolding chaos outside.
Damn David pulled a Jason Bourne movie. This
guy is way too good to be a small town Sheriff.
As for why that guy can leave his wife, well,
for starters it’s a quarantine due to a
deadly pathogen outbreak, and maybe it’s
a good idea to leave her in the hands of medical
professionals who understand the pathogen
better and can help her.
Also, maybe because he’s an overweight accountant
and you’re an athletic Sheriff who's way
better skilled and equipped for the job. Did
you honestly think he was going to ninja onto
the bus, sneak past all the soldiers, fight
off all the crazies, find his wife, and escape
the city alive. He would 100% have gotten
him and his wife killed.
Welp, the military quarantine was overrun
by a couple guys in a truck. The military
doesn’t even try to regain control, and
they all hop in their choppers and bounce.
Solid work guys.
I guess I understand that with everyone running
the gates and scrambling like it’s 2 fast
2 furious, you need to reestablish a wider
perimeter.
On one side, now you can ‘rescue’ Judy
and there won’t be any soldiers there to
stop you, but on the flipside, now you gotta
deal with the crazies and bandits which are
arguably more dangerous.
Before going in to save his wife, David goes
back and grabs his six shooter while Russ
grabs the shotty. David doesn’t know that
the camp was overrun yet, so i’m not sure
what his plan is. Does he really think he’s
going to wave his 38 special revolver at the
soldiers, sweep his gal off her feet and ride
into the sunset?
Things aren’t looking good back at the hospital.
There’s really no time to try to Houdini
out of the restraints, he’d just kill you.
Honestly, staying quiet and acting dead is
her best shot at this point. Which she doesn’t
do in the slightest. Judy close your fucking
eyes and turn your head back.
Stop squirming and crying for Christ's sake,
he’s obviously targeting the alive looking
people.
David saves her ass just before she gets the
rake. Everybody in this movie has exceptional
timing.
On their way out, Russ mentions that he was
only a little further downstream from the
contaminated water supply than Rory was. I
really doubt that has much to do with the
probability of infection. Everyone had been
drinking that water for a week. If you were
going to get it, you would’ve already gotten
it. Incubation times and immunity may vary
though so you can’t know for sure.
Walking in the middle of the street is really
dumb, you should be moving cover to cover
slowly and deliberately, checking all the
areas before moving. Making sure you’re
always close to cover.
They find an operational truck that wasn’t
booted by the military, but it’s owned by
the infected hunters from earlier. Looks like
the hunting’s been good. It’s best to
let them pass, not only do they outnumber
you, and hunters are usually pretty good shots,
but trying to drive out of the city is dangerous
and hopeless.
The military is going to have every road blocked
off, be very trigger happy and paranoid, and
not likely to take any chances now. The best
bet is to walk it to the next city.
Judy’s employee, Becca who they also saved,
runs off into a nearby house in search of
her boyfriend. David wants to stay on track
and leave Becca, but Judy convinces him to
help her find her boyfriend. Judy’s argument
was that David came back to save her, so why
is he not trying to save Becca and her boyfriend
too.
Well, he saved you because you're his wife,
not some chick’s new boyfriend that she’s
only known for a month. Little bit of a difference.
The second reason is that he’s either infected
in which case he’s dangerous, or he’s
not infected but he’s super paranoid, in
which case he’s also dangerous. The third
reason is that the amount of people in your
group is growing too big, and you can’t
trust Becca or Scotty to not be idiots.
David concedes, and complies with his wife’s
wishes and tries to find Becca’s boyfriend,
who nearly blows their brains out.
How did the military not see them wandering
in the open. Seems like the military set up
the wider perimeter and are now trying to
hunt the infected and re-establish the quarantine
medical camps again.
Eventually they are going to search the barn
too, so if you can’t sneak out the back
you better put the guns down, get on your
knees, put your hands up, and yell that you
are unarmed and not infected.
Well that was dumb. What the hell did you
think you were going to do. They told you
to stop and you kept sprinting at them like
a crazy person.
This kind of shenanigans is why I was stressing
to keep your group small and with trusted
people. Adding people you don’t know just
increases the chance you’re going to get
aCharlie wildcard like scotty.
Instead of surrendering, Russ and David opt
to abduct one of the soldiers. Bold move,
and way less likely to go your way than you
think.
Realistically, soldiers would not be clearing
houses and barns by themselves. There would
be an entire squad pouring in and clearing
all the angles. Especially in such a hostile
situation such as this.
David interrogates the soldier, asking him
what the heck they are doing. I think it’s
obvious. They are clearing sectors of the
quarantine zone and assessing people for infections.
Just like Judy, they found that Scotty’s
mom potentially had the virus and were going
to quarantine and try to treat her. She unnecessarily
ran, so they shot her. Her son then ran at
them and was repeatedly told to stop which
he didn’t, so they shot him too. All pretty
reasonable actions given the stakes and circumstances.
Do you really think they tell grunts exactly
what’s going on anyways.
David convinces the soldier to report an all
clear, and fortunately he doesn’t rat them
out. This is also highly unlikely.
Not really, he just said he was told to always
keep his mask on or he could get infected.
Like all the doctors and soldiers from earlier,
it’s standard procedure to wear PPE to protect
against bodily fluids and potential transmission
vectors. I mean it could be, and you should
take those precautions, but it’s not proof
that it’s airborne.
They sneak back over to their home to grab
some supplies and the old Police cruiser.
They still think they can drive out of town,
wow. David’s spidey senses should have been
tingling at the sight of their car.
It was booted by the military like all the
other cars, which suggests the military was
there. But why was it burned and shot up too?
Something must have happened here. Someone
must have been here that caused an altercation.
You can’t be sure that nobody is here and
that your home is perfectly safe to wander
around.
Like I've been stressing this whole movie,
they need to stay together. You don’t need
to split up and gather supplies either, you’re
driving an hour down the road tops. And you
especially don’t need to take a trip down
memory lane by yourself. Well, I guess she
isn’t really by herself.
Children's music playing in the apocalypse
is always a red flag. David was really lucky
he was able to get his fingers under the rope
around his neck before the crazy cinched it.
If he hadn’t, he’d have been lights out
in seconds.
Actually it wasn’t, he killed Rory with
a Glock 19. And how would you even know, you
weren’t at the baseball game nor where you
close enough to see what gun he actually had.
And if you were observant and saw David around
town, you’d know that he likely used the
same pistol that he duty carries every day,
which is the Glock 19. It’s not like a Glock
versus a Smith and Wesson M&P here, it’s
a magazine fed recoil operated pistol versus
a near snub nose revolver. But maybe I'm being
a little pedantic given the situation and
her being crazy and all.
Russ had to have heard that. It’s a good
thing the psycho’s are dumber than our protagonists.
The
throat grab with the knife in your hand is
always cool as hell, I do think he should
have then picked her up and throat slammed
her to the ground while delivering a one liner.
It’s just a wasted opportunity. David didn’t
really have a choice, but the throat shank
would have contaminated his blood with the
virus from her bodily fluids. Hopefully he’s
got an immunity or something, or else he’s
gonna become one of them in a few days.
Little Billy grabs the gun and just before
he can get the shot off on David, Russ comes
in with the clutch snipe.
That was cool and all, but was beyond dumb
from a tactical standpoint.
I counted a full minute from Peggy firing
a round off and Russ sniping the kid. It should
have taken him maybe 20 seconds to grab his
shotgun and come up to the room.
Let’s back up a bit so I can try to understand
Russ’s thought process. He heard a gunshot
ring out in the upstairs room of the house,
grabbed the scoped rifle instead of the shotgun,
then went outside and stood around for a full
minute trying to see something through a window
that has curtains over it.
If David’s situation went down any other
way, the altercation occurred in another room,
or the infected kid was a couple feet to the
left or right of the window, Russ wouldn’t
have had a shot and David would be dead. Not
too mention that there were curtains over
the window, and the kid’s hair and clothing
is fairly similar to Davids. He easily could
have mistaken David for the kid.
Becca then beats Russ to the room and just
rushes inside, which is also stupid because
they don’t know if the room is actually
safe or not. She seems to have a habit of
running off impulsively.
When Russ finally makes it into the room he
has the hunting rifle in hand. I just don’t
get why he didn’t bring the shotgun instead.
I can’t argue with double tapping the infected
to make sure they’re dead. The crazies have
shown to be devious and play dead like Bill
in the jail cell.
David’s wife thinks Russ is showing symptoms
of infection because he double tapped Peggy
and Curt. I’m starting to get a little annoyed
with Judy. She went off on her own in the
apocalypse which endangered everyone else,
and now she’s complaining that Russ saved
their lives and ensured that the attackers
were fully dead so they didn’t get attacked
again? That’s rich.
They get the old Police cruiser working and
start making their way out of town, but Becca
starts coughing a lot. Russ rightly brings
up how dangerous it is to be in the car with
someone coughing everywhere, and guess who
defends Becca. Mrs. Russ might be infected
because he saved our lives in a way I felt
was too aggressive, Judy. What’s with the
hypocritical two-faced bullshit.
Their argument is interrupted by an AH-64
Apache attack helicopter.
I know it’s an understatement, but that
is a huge, huge problem.
This specific helicopter is carrying an M230
30mm chain gun with 4 rocket pods carrying
a total of 76 M151 Hydra 70 unguided rockets
which have a fragmentation radius of 50 meters,
all of which are linked up to one of the most
advanced sensor and targeting systems in the
world, flown by pilots who are experts at
recon, tracking, and eliminating things like
moving vehicles.
My point is that mashing the pedal has got
to be one of the dumbest things you could
think to do. You aren’t outrunning or outmaneuvering
it, nor can you hide from it. Your only chance
at survival is to stop, get out, and put your
hands up. Sure, they might kill you, but they
will definitely kill you if you run.
David says screw all of that, and pulls into
the car wash to remove his 5 wanted stars.
I bet he really fooled the Apache pilot. That’s
like Anakin thinking spinning is a good trick.
Turns out the car wash wasn’t such a good
idea. Becca shouts that she saw someone, and
all the machinery spins up and starts pulling
their car along the car wash tracks.
Tactically, inside a car is a bad place to
be fighting from, especially one in the middle
of a car wash with no clear sight lines. If
any of the infected has a firearm and runs
up on them, the car doors and windows won’t
stop any of the bullets.
As soon as Becca said she saw someone, the
lights came on, and David couldn’t get the
car operational, they should have gotten out
of the vehicle and retreated back towards
the entrance and found some cover. Then they
could clear the building on their terms from
a much stronger position, and recover their
vehicle once the threats are eliminated.
This scene in Sicario demonstrates this well.
Once out of the car, they can create open
sight and fire lines, flank the enemies, and
use more solid forms of cover like the engine
blocks of other cars, and can retreat if they
need to.
If they’re going to stay in the vehicle,
at least have Becca and Judy crunch down and
get as low to the floor as possible to clear
the lines of fire for Russ and David.
The chaos and confusion causes Russ to start
blasting at nothing. Not only does he waste
ammo and empty the shotgun before he actually
has a clear shot, he sticks the barrel out
of the car way too far and loses the shotgun.
Just before they make it out becca gets a
hose wrapped around her throat and hung from
the ceiling. For being complete psycho’s,
they’re actually pretty clever.
Looks like they’re walking now. Apparently
down the middle of the road because they have
the collective memory capacity of a Goldfish..
Which is actually a lot longer than 3 seconds,
but i’m trying to make a point here. This
is the same road that the Apache helicopter
was patrolling, which blew up your car. Yes,
an Apache could probably find them walking
in the fields, but they’re a lot less likely
to be spotted in a field than on the highway
the Apache is patrolling. Even forgetting
the Apache, military and government vehicles
will likely have checkpoints and be transporting
soldiers and equipment on these roads.
So far they’ve only been able to avoid the
military on sheer luck, which just ran out.
David walks out into the middle of the road
and tries to stop the oncoming agency van
so they can steal it, but Russ goes Wildcard
too and Spike traps it.
Spike traps don’t really cause cars to flip
like that, but sure.
Under interrogation, this guy reveals that
people were getting infected with a bioweapon
called Trixie, a Rhabdoviridae Prototype with
a 48 hour incubation period. They engineered
this virus as a weapon that could be used
to destabilize enemy nations. He says that
the plane carrying the bio weapon was being
transported to a disposal facility in Texas
to be incinerated and destroyed, and that
this whole thing was a giant accident.
My question, if why wasn’t the pathogen
secured in a black box type container which
is crash proof, fireproof, etcetera? That
would have prevented this entire mess.
The World Health Organization and American
Society for Microbiology lists guidance and
regulations for the transport of infectious
materials. From reading their document, I
wouldn’t say it’s ‘blackbox’ level,
but it’s close. There is a triple packaging
system with limitations on the quantity that
can be transported at one time. This triple
packaging ensures that if the leakproof primary
receptacle is compromised there is another
layer that will absorb the pathogen which
is also contained in a leakproof container,
with a final rigid outer layer protecting
them all from external damage. This should
have stopped any infectious substances from
surviving the plane crash, especially since
the plane seemed to be intact so it didn’t
hit the ground with enough force to fragment
and rupture itself.
I’m also suspicious why a government agent
is being so forthcoming about the existence
of a top secret bioweapons program, you’d
think they’d have a cover story or mention
that it was just a naturally occurring virus
that they were researching and disposing off.
However, what he’s saying sounds truthful
and plausible. It’s unlikely to be an domestic
bioweapon experiment, because there are plenty
of third world countries that the U.S. can
test the pathogen on where they would have
more control over the virus and plausible
deniability if they lost control of it. I’m
not advocating this, just saying.
The U.S. has dedicated facilities for chemical
weapons disposal, the preferred method of
disposal is incineration, and the preferred
method of transportation is a non-stop flight
with a military aircraft. Ogden Marsh just
happened to be unlucky enough to have the
flight make an unexpected stop in their water
supply.
I mentioned the U.S’s protocol for chemical
weapons disposal, because there’s no available
information on how the U.S. disposes of biological
weapons. Reason being, technically production
of biological weapons is in strict violation
of the 1972 multinational Biological Weapons
Convention.
This is more bad news for them, because if
news got out about the Trixie Virus, it would
cause major problems and destroy any trust
with other nations who would then start their
own bioweapons research and development programs.
Let’s be real though, the BWC is all theatrics
and I bet a significant percentage of participating
nations are secretly developing them already.
The problem is that the government has a real
incentive to silence any survivors and destroy
any evidence this virus exists, aka David’s
crew. They need to keep walking towards the
next city so they can distribute their evidence
like we planned earlier.
Okay, maybe Judy was right about Russ. They
correctly try to take the guns away from him,
but Russ has a backup pistola which he pulls
on them.
With Russ’s declining mental condition,
they can’t afford to allow him to have the
guns for much longer, so David confronts Russ
and is able to get close enough to disarm
him.
Most people don’t understand that once someone
is within arms reach of you, they can hit
you or grab your gun faster than you can physically
react. Which is why you never hold a gun out
like that within arms reach of someone who
might try to take it.
Pretty sad bro moment, obviously they were
long time friends, and Russ still has the
capacity to know he’s done for, but he still
wants to hang out with them a little while
longer.
I say sure, as long as he’s not within arms
reach or behind you. But if they get into
a situation where they need to stealth it,
David’s gonna need to let him go.
Eventually they run into a military checkpoint,
and Russ volunteers to take one for the team
to distract the soldiers so David and Judy
can make it across.
I’m confused as to why they all can’t
just walk further down the road where there
isn’t a checkpoint.
There also is no reason to give Russ your
gun, he can distract them perfectly fine unarmed.
And he emptied the gun as well, seriously,
there was no point in giving him the gun.
He could have caused them to shoot just by
acting like he was going for a gun or making
a finger pistol.
David and Judy successfully sneak past the
military checkpoint and arrive at a gas station
where they try to find supplies and a truck.
Man, wouldn’t it be nice to have that gun
right now.
You would think they would have learned by
now that splitting up only causes problems.
On Judy’s adventure, she finds truckloads
of dead bodies and bullet casings, this information
doesn’t really change much, they already
knew the military has gotten paranoid and
trigger happy.
He’s not, he’s providing solutions while
you complain and moan, but by all means, let's
just sit here and wallow until someone comes
and kills us.
Judy finally comes to her senses and they
split up yet again. David has the important
task of gathering supplies and finding an
operational vehicle with keys, while Judy
has the important task of having a sit and
pouring a fresh glass of water.
The only explanation for their stupidity is
that they are infected and losing their minds
too. I don’t know how you could be so nonchalant
when almost every location you’ve been to
has had homicidal maniacs, paranoid survivors,
or hostile soldiers at it.
Yep, psychos are here too. Get a w eapon.
Come on. There ya go.
Hopefully you can fake dead better than in
the hospital from earlier. I bet you’re
really regretting splitting up right about
now. Oh they both decided to hide in the room
full of dead bodies, perfect.
I really wish people would shut the fuck up
while someone else is doing an important task.
That’s like the third time she’s done
that to him. He knows it’s urgent, he’s
always known that. Don’t start stressing
him out even more while he’s trying to figure
it out.
David figures the corpse they pulled out of
the driver seat probably has the keys and
gets ambushed when he tries to snag them.
Realistically, an AR15 round would sail through
that door like a hot knife through butter
and Judy would be very dead right now.
You know when the guy you are fighting takes
a good wrench to the face and barely flinches,
you’re going to have a bad time.
Judy was able to get into the back of the
cabin to avoid the rifle rounds and then take
the crazy by surprise with a solid headshot.
David finishes the other infected guy off
by flicking his zippo at him like a classic
action hero, and they haul ass out of town
in the semi. On the radio there’s some kind
of countdown being broadcasted. I think we
can safely assume that it’s nothing good.
The fact that it’s on a broad channel going
to all soldiers in the area indicates that
they are trying to evacuate the area before
they hit it with a bomb or something.
Well that’s certainly more than just a bomb.
It’s likely a plane mounted B61 Mod 7 340
kiloton strategic nuke, which is in service
currently. This nuke should be survivable
with the distance they covered in the truck.
Considering they may have gotten a mile or
so out of town, this would have put them outside
the fireball, heavy blast damage radius, and
radiation radius, but like what occurred in
the movie, they were still inside the moderate
blast damage radius which easily could have
flipped their truck. They are also inside
the thermal blast radius, but the truck provided
some protection against it.
I didn’t think the situation was bad enough
to require a freaking nuke. I don’t see
how they can keep a domestic nuclear strike
a few hours away from a major city under wraps
anymore.
The satellite caught David and Judy walking
towards Cedar Rapids, and initiated another
quarantine zone. It’s not really clear if
they were initiating the quarantine zone because
of David and Judy, or because Cedar Rapids
was contaminated as well.
I have a hard time believing it was because
of David and Judy. They already caught them
on satellite, they’d just need to swing
an Apache by and hit them with the chain gun.
Not much of a happy ending, but it would solve
the problem.
It also wouldn’t be caused by the water
supply being contaminated, because the Cedar
Rapids river flows south through the fictional
town of Ogden Marsh.
It’s likely some other people already made
it there. Again with how self-limiting this
virus is, because it’s not airborne and
the hosts show incredibly obvious signs after
2 days and are dead after 3 more days, it’s
not really that much of a problem, as long
as you don’t crash another plane filled
with Trixie into Cedar Rapids water supply.
Post credits they show a news reporter saying
that there was a chemical plant explosion
in Ogden Marsh which caused the fireball.
To be fair, chemical warehouse explosions
can be absolutely massive, but seriously doubt
you could cover up a domestic nuclear explosion.
At the very end of the news report, it cuts
to David who turned into a crazy because of
his knife wound contamination. Just kidding
I don’t know if it’s him, but Cedar Rapids
is now under siege from the Trixie crazies.
The movie ends.
Let’s recap who would have lived or died
if the characters made the best possible choices.
If the government followed its own guidance
and regulations, the Trixie Virus shouldn’t
have escaped the triple packaging. Even if
it did, there shouldn’t have been enough
of it to infect the entire town. In this case,
nobody would have died.
If we accept that the virus made it out of
the plane and into the water supply, well,
at that point everyone would be dead. If it
wasn’t for their immense amount of luck,
the virus should have infected them from drinking
the same water for a week, the soldiers should
have gunned them down for breaching the quarantine,
the Apache should have disintegrated them
with Hydra rockets for trying to run in a
1973 ford police cruiser, and the crazies
should have killed them for splitting up and
being oblivious.
I think with our guidance, the military could
have packaged the virus properly, and we could
have beaten the Trixie virus from The Crazies.
Thanks for watching, and remember, at the
first sign of an apocalypse, run for it and
leave everyone else behind, they’re probably
already dead.